Guru99
Home
 
Testing 
 
SAP 
 
Web 
 
Must Learn! 
 
Big Data 
 
Live Projects 
 
AI 
 
Blog
 
20 Best Front End Web Development Tools in 2019

There are many front-end development tools that accelerate web development. Here is a curated list of top tools with key features and download links.

1) Novi Builder


Novi Builder is a drag-and-drop builder that can be called a great choice for an experienced web-developer. It provides them with access to the source code and allows making multiple changes in design. You will get full control of your online-project and get a chance to make the most out of its functionality. Despite the fact that it can be a little bit hard to use for beginners, there are different benefits that outweigh this weakness.

Features:

advanced code editor;
additional apps integration;
a wide selection of pre-made themes;
drag-and-drop interface;
eCommerce support;
preview tool.
Download link: https://novibuilder.com/

2) ONE Subscription


ONE Subscription is an effective web-development kit that allows getting access to a great number of top-quality digital products. It boasts tons of high-quality items that make it possible to launch fully-fledged blogs, online-stores, landing pages, and other websites. In general, you will be provided with thousands of themes and templates, different plugins and graphic elements, additional services, and other advantages.

Features:

professional support for all items;
regular updates;
security (you can easily cancel your subscription within 14 days after its starts if you have not downloaded anything from the database);
unlimited yearly license;
useful services (as an example, template customization or installation).
Download link: https://one.templatemonster.com/

3) Creative Tim


Creative Tim provides Bootstrap based design elements, which help you faster your development work. You can create web and mobile apps using this tool.

Features:

Provide the easiest way to get started is to use one of our pre-built example pages.
Using this tool helps you to save your time and as it allows you to focus on your business model.
Offers an easy to use Admin Templates
Admin Dashboards helps you to save a large amount of time
Offers pre-Made Sections & Elements


4) Npm:


Npm is the Node package manager for JavaScript. It helps to discover packages of reusable code and assemble them in powerful new ways. This web development tool is a command-line utility for interacting with a said repository that aids in the package.

Features:

Discover and reuse over 470,000 free code packages in the Registry
Encourage code discovery and reuse within teams
Publish and control access to namespace
Manage public and private code using the same workflow
Download link: https://www.npmjs.com/

5) TypeScript:


TypeScript is an open-source front end scripting language. It is a strict syntactical superset of JavaScript which adds optional static typing. It is specially designed for development of large applications and compiles to JavaScript.

Features:


TypeScript supports other JS libraries
It is possible to use this Typescript on any environment that JavaScript runs on
It supports definition files that can contain type information of existing JavaScript libraries, such as C/C++ header files
It is portable across browsers, devices, and operating systems
It can run on any environment that JavaScript runs on
Download link: https://www.typescriptlang.org/index.html#download-links

6) CodeKit:


Codekit is a front-end web development tool. This tool provides support to build websites faster. It combines, minifies and syntax-checks JavaScript. It also optimizes images.

Features:

CSS changes are injected without need of reloading the entire page
Combine scripts to reduce HTTP requests.
Minify code to reduce file sizes
Works automatically with most languages without trouble
Download link: https://codekitapp.com/

7) WebStorm:


WebStorm brings smart coding assistance for JavaScript. It provides advanced coding assistance for Angular, React.js, Vue.js and Meteo. It also helps developers to code more efficiently when working with large projects

Features:

WebStorm helps developers to code more efficiently when working with large projects
It provides built-in tools for debugging, testing and tracing client-side and Node.js applications
It integrates with popular command line tools for web development
Spy-js built-in tool allows tracing JavaScript code
It provides a unified UI for working with many popular Version Control System
It is extremely customizable to perfectly suite various coding style
It offers built-in debugger for client-side code and Node.js apps
Download link: https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/download/#section=windows

8) HTML5 Boilerplate:


HTML5 Boilerplate help in building fast, robust, and adaptable web apps or sites. It is a set of files that developers can download, which provide a foundation for any website.

Features:

It allows developers to use HTML5 elements
It is designed by keeping progressive enhancement in mind
Normalize.css for CSS normalizations and common bug fixes
Apache Server Configs to improve performance and security
It offers optimized version of the Google Universal Analytics snippet
Protection against console statements causing JavaScript errors in older browsers
Extensive inline and accompanying documentation
Download link: https://html5boilerplate.com/

9) AngularJS:


AngularJS is another must-have tool for front-end developers. It is an open-source web application framework. It helps to extend the HTML syntax for web applications. It simplifies front-end development process by developing accessible, readable and expressive environment.

Features:

It is an is open source, completely free, and used by thousands of developers around the world
It offers to create RICH Internet Application
It provides option to write client side application using JavaScript using MVC
It automatically handles JavaScript code suitable for each browser
Download link: https://angularjs.org/

10) Sass:


Sass is the most reliable, mature, and robust CSS extension language. This tool helps to extend the functionality of an existing CSS of a site like variables, inheritance, and nesting with ease.


Features:

It is straightforward and easy to use front end tool to write any code
Supports language extensions such as variables, nesting, and mixins
Many useful functions for manipulating colors and other values
Advanced features like control directives for libraries
It offers well-formatted, customizable output
Download link: http://sass-lang.com/

11) Backbone:


Backbone.js gives structure to web applications by offering models with key-value binding and custom events.

Features:

Backbone.js allows developers to develop one-page applications
Backbone.js has a simple library used to separate business and user interface logic
This tool makes code simple, systematic and organized. It acts as a backbone for any project
It manages the data model which also includes the user data and display that data on the server side
It allows developers to create client side web applications or mobile applications
Download link: http://backbonejs.org/

12) Grunt:


Grunt is a popular task runner on NodeJS. It is flexible and widely adopted. It is preferred tool when it comes to task automation. It offers lots of bundled plugins for common tasks.

Features:

It makes the workflow as easy as writing a setup file
It allows automating repetitive tasks with minimum effort
It has a straightforward approach. It includes tasks in JS and config in JSON
Grunt includes built-in tasks for extending the functionality of plugins and scripts
It speeds up the development process and increase the performance of projects
The ecosystem of Grunt is huge; so it is possible to automate anything with very less effort
This web development tool reduces the chance of getting errors while performing repetitive tasks
Download link: https://gruntjs.com/

13) Jasmine:


Jasmine is a behavior-driven js for testing JavaScript code. It does not depend on any other JavaScript frameworks. This open source tool does not require a DOM.

Features:

Low overhead, no external dependencies
Comes out of the box with everything need to test code
Run browser tests and Node.js tests using the same framework
Download link: https://jasmine.github.io/index.html

14) CodePen:


CodePen is a web development environment for front-end designers and developers. It is all about faster and smoother development. It allows to build, deploy website and build test cases.

Features:

It offers to build components to use elsewhere later
It includes some awesome features to write CSS faster.
Allows live view and live sync
Prefill API feature allows adding links and demo pages without need to code anything
Download link: https://codepen.io/

15) Foundation:



Foundation is front-end framework for any device, medium, and accessibility. This responsive front-end framework makes it easy to design responsive websites, apps, and emails.

Features:

It offers the cleanest markup without sacrificing the utility and speed of Foundation
Possible to customize the build to include or remove certain elements. As it defines the size of columns, colors, font size.
Faster development and page load speed
Foundation is optimized truly for mobile devices
Customizability for developers of all levels
It takes responsive design to the next level, with the much-needed medium grid accommodating for tablets
Download link: http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/download.html/

16) Sublime Text:


Sublime Text is a proprietary cross-platform source code editor. This app development tool natively supports many programming languages and markup languages.

Features:

Command palette feature allows matching keyboard invocation of arbitrary commands
Simultaneous editing allows making the same interactive changes to multiple areas
Offers Python-based plugin API
Allows developers to give project specific preferences
Compatible with many language grammars from TextMate
Download link: https://www.sublimetext.com/

17) Grid Guide:
Grid guide is another important front end development tool. It allows creating pixel perfect grids within designs. It is a simple tool that can unlock very valuable workflows.

Features:

Add guides based on the canvas, artboards, and selected layers
Quickly add guides to edges and midpoints
Allows to create duplicate guides to other artboards and documents
Helps users to create custom grids
Download link: https://guideguide.me/

18) Chrome Developer Tools:


The Chrome Developer Tools are a set of debugging tools built into Chrome. These tools allow developers to do wide varieties of testing which easily saved lots of time.

Features:

It allows adding custom CSS rules
Users can view Margin, Border, and Padding
It helps to Emulate Mobile Devices
Possible to use dev tools as editor
User can easily disable browser's caching when dev tool is open
Download link: https://developer.chrome.com/devtools

19) Modaal:


Modal is front end development plugin which gives quality, flexibile, and accessibile modals.

Features:

Optimized for assistive technologies and screen readers
Fully responsive, scaling with browser width
Customizable CSS with SASS options
It offers full-screen and viewport mode
Keyboard control for gallery open and closing modal
Flexible close options and methods
Download link: https://github.com/humaan/Modaal

20) Less


Less is a pre-processor that extends the support for CSS language. It allows developers to use techniques to make CSS more maintainable and extendable.

Feature:

It can freely download and use
It offers higher-level style syntax, which allows web designers/developers to create advanced CSS
It easily compiles into standard CSS, before the web browser begins rendering a web page
Compiled CSS files can be uploaded to the production web server
Download link: http://lesscss.org/

21) Meteor:


Meteor is a full stack JavaScript framework. It is made up of a collection of libraries and packages. It has been built on concepts from other frameworks and libraries to makes it easy to prototype applications.

Features:

It makes developing applications efficient
It comes with several built-in features that contain frontend libraries and NODE js based server
It speeds up development time significantly on any project
Meteor offers MongoDB database and Minimongo, which is written entirely in JavaScript
Live reloading feature allows refreshing only the required DOM elements
Download link: https://www.meteor.com/install

22) jQuery:


jQuery is a widely used JavaScript library. It empowers front-end developers to concentrate on the functionality of different aspects. It makes the things easy like HTML document traversal, manipulation, and Ajax.

Features:

QueryUI facilitates to make highly interactive web applications
It is open source and free to use
It provides a powerful theme mechanism
It is very stable and maintenance friendly
It offers an extensive browser support
Helps to create great documentation
Download link: http://jquery.com/download/

23) Github:


GitHub is a web development platform inspired by the way you work. This tool allows developers to review code, manage projects, and build software.

Features:

Coordinate easily, stay aligned, and get done with GitHub's project management tools
It offers right tools for the job
Easy documentation alongside quality coding
Allows all code in a single place
Developers can host their documentation directly from repositories
Download link: https://github.com/
